-5

This post is hidden. It was automatically deleted 4 days ago by CommunityBot.
Closed. This question is off-topic. It is not currently accepting answers.
We deal with mainstream physics here. Questions about the general correctness of unpublished personal theories are off topic, although specific questions evaluating new theories in the context of established science are usually allowed. For more information, see Is non mainstream physics appropriate for this site?.

Closed 15 days ago.

As far as I know, all waves require medium through which they are propagated. A medium that couples two adjecent points in space together, so that the change in amplitude of one point causes a change in amplitude of the other. If that medium is inelastic but tensioned, a wave would cause a contraction inwards from both sides. I know, the Schrödinger equation is supposed to only be interpreted as a mathematical model, a probability distribution, but still, the Schrödinger Equation contains the same second derivative term as any other wave function. To me this second derivative only makes sense with a medium and length contraction. Before the Michelson-Morely experiment and Einstein's theory of relativity the idea of an aether as such a medium was quite common. The idea of the Michelson-Morely experiment is to compare the two way speed of light send out in two orthogonal directions. But is that correct? Could the one way speed of light differ from the two way speed? What would that mean for the validity of the experiment?

"Recapitulating, we may say that according to the general theory of relativity space is endowed with physical qualities; in this sense, therefore, there exists an ether. According to the general theory of relativity space without ether is unthinkable; for in such space there not only would be no propagation of light, but also no possibility of existence for standards of space and time (measuring-rods and clocks), nor therefore any space-time intervals in the physical sense. But this ether may not be thought of as endowed with the quality characteristic of ponderable media, as consisting of parts which may be tracked through time. The idea of motion may not be applied to it." https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Extras/Einstein_ether/

gravitywavefunctionschroedinger-equationaether
Share
Cite
Edit
Undelete
Flag
edited Sep 8 at 4:56
asked Sep 7 at 13:17
Lukas Molzberger's user avatar
Lukas Molzberger
1111 bronze badge
1

What the Michelson-Morley experiment found was that the speed in orthogonal directions was the same, confirming relativity. Light and gravity do have media, in a certain sense - the electromagnetic and gravitational fields. Gravity is well-understood to be a cause of the curvature of spacetime, not anything else. –
controlgroup
 CommentedSep 7 at 14:56
1

@controlgroup Could you cite a concrete example of a medium (e.g. water, air) that behaves like gravity (attracts anything to anything else)? –
James
 CommentedSep 7 at 15:07
1

in a certain sense - by that I just mean that electromagnetic/gravitational waves don't have issues propagating in vacuum. Of course the analogy breaks down fast like any other but I was mainly addressing the fact that gravitational waves needn't a medium to cause the effects the OP is mentioning. @James –
controlgroup
 CommentedSep 7 at 15:20
1

@controlgroup (+1) I am not taking issue with your comment, but genuinely searching for an analog medium for gravity... There is a good analog for a white hole youtube.com/watch?v=p3P4iKb24Ng , so it seems there should be a good analog somewhere for regular gravity? –
James
 CommentedSep 7 at 15:40
1

Generally I wouldn't think so... most media we think about are three-dimensional while gravity is inherently four-dimensional (in the context of the EFEs). In the case of a 2D universe it wouldn't be awful to think of it as like currents due to vortices/drains in a pool of non-viscous liquid. It wouldn't be perfectly accurate but I think it would be a reasonable approximation. Event horizons would equate to the radii of the drains, I suppose. @James –
controlgroup
 CommentedSep 7 at 15:44
Comments disabled on deleted / locked posts / reviews