What the authors propose is that the field and its internal momentum is distributed through space in what looks like a donut or toroid. In this image a chunk of the donut is cut out to reveal its internal structure, showing several nested toroid shapes. This representation might suggest that the electron is a little donut, but that is not what this figure tries to express. It’s actually a schematic of how energy flows and how the momentum is distributed in this model for the electron. On the surface of the donut the authors have drawn curved lines which are called geodesics. Each geodesic curves over the surface of the donut in a closed loop and is one Compton wavelength long. One of the geodesics is accentuated and shows the direction of momentum and the flow of energy. And if you follow along its path, you see that it indeed describes a double loop. The nested toroids are drawn here to indicate that the internal momentum is not located in a single surface but is contained in a continuous structure that expands both inwards as well as outwards. Because a single Compton wavelength is contained in a double helix, the radius R is equal to the Compton wavelength divided by 4 pi, which would suggest, that the core of the structure is somewhat smaller than the Compton wavelength.From a physics perspective it would actually be impossible to contain all the energy inside a space that is smaller than approximately the size of half a wavelength. So the characteristic size of this object would be in the order of half and one Compton wavelength. But as we’ll see later the exact size is not really that relevant. Let’s now dive a bit deeper into the electromagnetic configuration as described in the model. So what the authors propose is that the electromagnet field is always parallel to the surfaces indicated in the toroid. So the magnet field line are shown here in blue form closed loops. Given the direction of the internal momentum, the electric field must therefore be perpendicular to the surface. This results in the electric field component shown in red to be orthogonal everywhere to the surface. Since the electron is negatively charged the field is pointing inwards according to the conventions on how to describe field direction. But of course a situation where the magnetic field lines run in the opposite direction is equally feasible and would represent positive charge. Because we are considering the electron, let’s stick with the negative charge representation for now. So if you look at how the field rotates along the surface of a toroid, it’s very similar to circularly polarized light. It actually rotates over two pi along the toroid surface and over 4 pi inside the toroid shape in a double loop. Now I guess the most difficult aspect in this field description is how can you bend light such that it follows a curved path in space and I will get back at this near the end of the video. Let me first elaborate a bit on the current model. The magnetic field lines are now such that this structure has a net magnetic moment as indicated by the large blue arrow through the center. But there’s something else that I want to point out about this structure that is much less obvious. If you take the mirror image of this object, the momentum is flowing in the opposite direction. This results in the magnetic moment pointing downwards instead of upwards. But if you try rotating this structure back on itself, you’re actually not going to get the exact same thing back. And that is because the geodesics will be following a different rotational path along the toroid surface. So these particles come in two different flavors that have different chirality and internally have two unique spin states for a part of the internally contained momentum. But both o these lead to an identical charge distribution and value for the magnetic dipole moment. If we analyze the internal momentum along one specific geodesic, we can distinguish two types of angular momentum. One due to the momentum rotating around the toroidal axis over 4 pi and the other due to a rotation of 2 pi along the toroidal surface. And as a consequence the entity as a whole will not be some static momentum distribution in space, but one that is constantly reorienting itself due to precession. With the energy racing around at the speed of light inside a volume that is the size of a Compton wavelength or smaller. The internal oscillation frequency will occur at two times the Compton frequency, which results in a rather large value for the internal oscillation frequency. What this effectively means is that the electron and its resulting external field will appear as fully spherosymmetric at any measurable time scale. Of course everything I’ve stated is also valid for the situation that the electric field lines are pointing outwards and the magnetic field is rotating in the other direction. And this state represents the positron, which we know has an identical charge but of opposite sign and has an identical value for the magnetic moment. And the positron like the electron can also have two unique internal spin states. So let me quickly summarize what just happened. By assuming toroidally shaped electromagnet field distribution in the electron, charge and magnetic moment are emergent properties. The resulting electric field is spherosmmetric and allows for two opposing field directions indicative of positive and negative charge. And each of these differently charged entities can have two distinct internal spin states.


But what I will do is quickly show you the calculation for the value of the charge. The derivation of charge from photon energy works as follows.
We assume that there is some dimension R that represents its size and has a direct relationship with Compton wavelength. This allows us to estimate
the electron's volume. We're also assuming that the energy density in the electron is stored in equal amounts in the electric and magnetic field density.
This results in the electric field energy density to be half of the total energy density. We actually know the total internal energy density based on
the constant Compton wavelength of the electron. And this allows us to relate field value at dimension r to the total energy contained in the electron.
So by combining all these relationships, we can calculate the average resulting field value (For the formula see W&vdM paper). And what we'll do next
is, relate this field value to the field of a classical Coulomb charge at radius r. Here are the two equations together. And what we can do is combine
these two formulas and extract the charge value q that satisfies the equality. Now in the paper this elaborate equation is simplified a bit first. But
by using this final result, we can now fill in the values and arrive at 1.47 times 10 to the -19 Coulomb for the charge generated by the model. If
you compare this value to the value experimentally measured for the electron, you see that it's quite close but not exactly the same. It's about 9% lower
it illustrates how with relatively simple reasoning, we can calculate a value for charge that is remarkably close to the experimental value. Now, you
might not have noticed at this point, but this formula of charge does not contain a radius or a Compton wavelength. And that is because we've made a specific
assumption about the relationship between radius r and Compton wavelength. And the charge value that emerges under these assumptions is a consequence of the
toroidal configuration and the internally stored energy. So the model would allow for the tweaking of the theoretical value of the charge using some
smudge factor in the relation between radius and the Compton wavelength. However, the authors decided not to go down this path in the current paper.
Okay, that's in a nutshell how a fairly realistic value for charge emerges from the toroidal model. What I want to do next is discuss two questions
I'm pretty sure a lot of viewers might have now. And those are, how can you justify, that a particle of the size of a Compton wavelength, interacts point like
in high energy collision experiments? And second, what could be behind the apparent curvature of space that leads to this type of field confinement?
Let's start with the first question. From the model, a typical dimension for the electron in the order of the Compton wavelength emerges.
But in high energy collision experiments, where electrons are accelerated very close to the speed of light, neither their size nor their internal structure
is revealed. So why would electrons interact point like when they aren't? To explain this discrepancy, the authors refer to the theory of Louis de Broglie
called harmony of phases. And this theory states that the phase associated with the internal oscillation should remain synchronized between different
inertial reference frames. So this theory tries to reconcile the relativistic effects of time dilation with the internal phase or clock of the energy oscillating
within a moving particle. And the conclusion of de Broglie was that every moving particle must have an accompanying wave with a wavelength that is dependent on
its momentum. In other words, dependent on its internal mass and velocity. And under relativistic conditions you'd have to add the Lorentz factor in the
momentum calculation. So where does this wave behavior in particles come from? Well, basically it's the result of interference between the Doppler shifted part
that make up the total internal momentum. Let me try to explain this using some simplified schematics. Here we have a particle that is static with respect to
the reference frame we're currently in. And for illustrative purposes, we assume that the internal energy is running in circles with the speed of light
like a little clock. Now because this particle is static its velocity and therefore momentum is zero. So according to the formula, a particle at rest
would have an infinitively long de Broglie wavelength. But this statement is actually meaningless, because defining a de Broglie wavelength only
makes sense for particles that are actually moving through space as hopefully will become clear. Consider the same particle moving with velocity v
in our reference frame. To maintain internal phase synchronization, part of the internal oscillation must be red shifted to a lower frequency and another
part blue shifted to a higher frequency. And the red and blue shifts are of course intended as an analogy to visible light to indicate this change in frequency.
So for a moving particle, internal momentum and energy is distributed over a range of frequencies. And these frequency components are not spatially
separated as this schematic illustration implies. They're actually superimposed and produce a net phase interference in the internal momentum distribution.
And it's this interference that results in a beat frequency. Now the de Broglie wavelength corresponds to the wavelength of this beat pattern as a particle
moves through space. So the fact that every moving particle has a de Broglie wavelength does not mean that a particle is actually a wave. It means that the internal
oscillation of energy and momentum manifests itself as a wave like distribution within a specific inertial reference frame. So with this in mind, we can understand
why a faster moving particle has a shorter de Broglie wavelength. It's because the red and blue shifts are larger in this case and the interference results in a
higher beat frequency. And if we now consider a particle with larger mass, in other words a particle with a shorter Compton wavelength, and a higher internal
frequency, the resulting de Broglie wavelength will be shorter than that of a lighter particle at the same velocity. The characteristic wavelength revealed in
this way is inversely proportional to the momentum of the particle. And yes, it's real. It can be experimentally observed in basically every particle
that has momentum. And this made the equation of de Broglie one of the pillars of modern physics. What I just described is actually closely related to
the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. If you compare the distribution of momentum, circulating in a particle that is moving to that of a stationary one,
it must be wider due to a shift to higher and lower frequencies within the total momentum distribution. And so the uncertainty in momentum widens as a particle
moves faster, which allows for the uncertainty of a particle's position to shrink in measurements because of the uncertainty relationship between the two.
Determining the size of particles in experiments is all about observing its interactions with other particles. And the authors determined that the resolving
power of one particle with respect to another one is equal to the de Broglie wavelength divided by two. But in the paper they also show that the characteristic
dimension of the electron due to relativistic effects must be smaller than this value. And this effectively means that you cannot resolve the internal structure
of an electron using an electron.
